README.md, before:

# map2world
ROS2 Port of map2gazebo: A package for creating Gazebo/Ignition environments from 2D Maps

map2gazebo Project URL: https://github.com/shilohc/map2gazebo

## Pre-Requisites
- ROS2 Humble (tested with the Debian packages)
- Python3 Dependencies
    - opencv-python
    - numpy
    - trimesh
    - matplotlib
    - pycollada

## Installation
- Make sure all pre-requisites are installed on your system first.
- Create a new folder. Let's say it's map2world.
- Create a src folder inside it. 
- Open a fresh terminal. `cd` into map2world/src. Clone this repository.
- Execute `cd ..` in the same terminal to move a folder up to map2world.
- Execute `colcon build` in the terminal.

## Usage
- Make sure the installation is properly completed
- Have a map server publishing the map to a topic. (One way to do is to run your Robotics Stack locally.)
- Open a fresh terminal, `cd` into the directory where map2world was built, and source it (`source install/setup.bash`)
- Run map2world: `ros2 run map2world map2world --ros-args -p map_topic:={map_topic} -p mesh_type:={mesh_type} -p export_dir:={export_dir} -p occupied_threshold:={occupied_threshold} -p box_height:={box_height}`
    - Parameters Reference:
        - map_topic (Optional): Map Topic to which the map is being published. Default Value: _map_
        - mesh_type (Optional): Whether to export as a .dae file or .stl file. Accepted Values: _.dae_, _.stl_ Default Value: _.dae_
        - export_dir (Optional): Folder path to save the file to. Default Value: Active user's home directory.
        - occupied_threshold (Optional): Minimum threshold for OpenCV to get the occupied regions of the map. Default Value: _1_
        - box_height (Optional): Height of the occupied voxel from ground in the 3D mesh. Default Value: _2.0_
- Once the conversion is successfully done, the map2world node will shut down with a message on the terminal.

Commit message:

Efficient map2world (#2)
* more efficient map2world

* updated script and added comments

* updated script and added comments

* added functionality to extract line

* added line2world functionality

* made some changes in readme

* fixed template path

* updated readme

* updated path for templates

* formatted the code

* add documentation comments

---------

Co-authored-by: Manan Rughani <themananrughani@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ulkesh Solanki <ulkesh.solanki@getpeppermint.co>

README.md, after:

# map2world
ROS2 Port of map2gazebo: A package for creating Gazebo/Ignition environments from 2D Maps

map2gazebo Project URL: https://github.com/shilohc/map2gazebo

## Pre-Requisites
- ROS2 Humble (tested with the Debian packages)
- Python3 Dependencies
    - opencv-python
    - numpy
    - trimesh
    - matplotlib
    - pycollada
    - shapely
    - mapbox-earcut
    - pyglet==1.5.29

## Installation
- Make sure all pre-requisites are installed on your system first.
- Create a new folder. Let's say it's map2world.
- Create a src folder inside it. 
- Open a fresh terminal. `cd` into map2world/src. Clone this repository.
- Execute `cd ..` in the same terminal to move a folder up to map2world.
- Execute `colcon build` in the terminal.

## Usage
- Make sure the installation is properly completed
- If you are using it to generate world for line follow then the path drawn on the image must be of red color otherwise the script wont be able to detect the path.
- Do verify the location where the model is being saved (variable: package_path). By default it finds the share directory of package_name given.
- Have a map server publishing the map to a topic. (One way to do is to run your Robotics Stack locally.)
- Open a fresh terminal, `cd` into the directory where map2world was built, and source it (`source install/setup.bash`)
- If you are using it for map generation of line follow map then replace the original image with the image having path at the loaction where original image was stored. 
- Run map2world: `ros2 run map2world map2world --ros-args -p map_topic:={map_topic} -p mesh_type:={mesh_type} -p occupied_threshold:={occupied_threshold} -p box_height:={box_height} -p package_name:= {package_name} -p model_name:= {model_name} -p img_path:={img_path} -p map_mode:={map_mode} -p red:={red} -p green:={green} -p blue:={blue}`
    - Parameters Reference:
        - map_topic (Optional): Map Topic to which the map is being published. Default Value: _map_
        - mesh_type (Optional): Whether to export as a .dae file or .stl file. Accepted Values: _.dae_, _.stl_ Default Value: _.dae_
        - occupied_threshold (Optional): Minimum threshold for OpenCV to get the occupied regions of the map. Default Value: _1_
        - box_height (Optional): Height of the occupied voxel from ground in the 3D mesh. Default Value: _2.0_
        - package_name (Optional): The package where the mesh file and model files will be stored. Default Value: _sim_models_ppmt_
        - model_name (Optional): The name by which user wants to save the model. Default Value: _new_model_
        - map_mode (Optional): The mapping mode. Select "line" to generate world for line following robot and "clean" to generate world for cleaning robot. Default Value: _clean_
        
        - *THE BELOW GIVEN PARAMETER ARE ONLY USEFUL IN LINE MODE.*
        - img_path (Optional): The location of image where the line follow path image is stored. Default Value: _"-1"_
        - red (Optional): Path colour user requires in map. Default Value: _255_
        - green (Optional): Path colour user requires in map. Default Value: _0_
        - blue (Optional): Path colour user requires in map. Default Value: _0_
- Once the conversion is successfully done, the map2world node will shut down with a message on the terminal.
